Welcome back the previous step we establish the connection between spring cloud config server and the local
GIT repository we were able to say local host 8 8 8 8 limits service slash default and retrieve the configuration
for that specific service.
Now the other question is we would want to be able to store configuration for multiple environments.
So this limits services might have DEV environment or QA environment and the stage environment I would
want to be able to store the configuration for all those environments inside the.
GIT repository.
How do I do that.
Let's look at that in this specific step.
Earlier we created a simple file right limits hyphen service dot properties.
Now this becomes the default configuration.
So what ever values are present in the limit servies becomes the default configuration for the limit service
however.
You can override them for a specific environment.
How do I override them.
I can make a copy of this file I would.
Now say I'm copying the same file and pasting down there and I would now say limits hyphen service DEV
dot properties.
And I'll also create another file.
Limits hyphen service Q A dot properties.
So we have a Dev dot properties in the DEV dot properties.
I'll put 1 and 1 1 1 and in QA dot properties.
I would put two and two two two.
So what we are specifying in here is by default.
This is the value so the minimum is 8 8 8 8 but in DEV environment for limits service the minimum is 1
For QA environment it is 2.
You can specifically decide to override only the values you are interested in.
Let's say you would want to pick the default for the maximum then you can comment this out then the
maximum value for the DEV environment you would pick up from the default file the default file is limits
hyphen service.
So it would pick up the value from here.
The minimum value we are overriding it in here.
The other thing you can do is completely remove this line as well.
For now what I'll do is I'll override all the values which are present in here.
So DEV the minimum and maximum are one and one eleven respectively and in QA it's two and two twenty two respectively.
Know before I would be able to see these values using the URLs what I would need to do is to commit these
files in.
There is one thing you need to always remember when ever we are making changes.
to your files inside the GIT local configu repo.
Make sure that you commit them in.
You need to commit them to the local repository and only then they will be available through the spring
cloud config server.
So let's go head and commit them in what is the command do you remembered I'll say GIT add hyphen A to add
all the files in.
If I do GIT status it would show what are the changes that are present.
So I am saying GIT status and it shows.
OK.
A new file.
Couple of new files are present.
So now I can go ahead and commit them into GIT commit
hyphen m I would want to put the commit saying Dev and QA properties OK they're added in to the repository
right now.
And now I can access those properties all that I would need to do is instead the default I need to put in the
environment names so let's put in QA  now you can see that when I put in QA here it is retrieving
a list of properties sources.
One of the important things is these lists of properties sources are in the order of priority.
So the highest priority is for whatever values are configured in the QA file so limits service QA dot
properties 2 and 222 and the next priority.
Goes for the defaults so limits
service dot properties.
So if there is a value which is configured in here for example this value the value for this is two.
So if there was a value which was inside the default which was not present in the QA dot properties
then the value from the default will be pick up.
But what ever is present in the QA has the highest priority so whatever is present limits service.
QA dot properties has the highest priority for now.
All that we are seeing is the list of properties sources being are that are being written.
What we'll do at a later point in one of the next steps is Connect the limits service to the spring cloud config server.
What we are doing right now is connecting Spring cloud config server to GIT in the latest step we'll connect
the limits service to the spring cloud config server and you would see that these specific values are
being picked up that's.
QA What you can also do is the values for DEV.
So I'm saying slash DEV and now you'd see that limits services Dev dot properties that is the highest priority
one and one eleven and the next priority goes to limits
service dot properties eight and eight eight eight.
Don't worry about the fact that the property values are repeating in these two different files.
We'll look at the fact that when I connect the limits service to this spring cloud config server it has
the logic to be able to determine which is the one which is having the highest priority so it knows
that the first file has the highest priority.
And if you ask for the value for limits service dot minimum it will return the value 1 it will not return the default
because it's overridden down here in this step.
What we have done is we've configured multiple values for the limits service in DEV environment
in QA environment
One of the exercises you can try and do is to configure a couple of more property files for the stage and the
production environment for the limits service.
Until the next step.
Bye bye.